Acolyte – You have been involved with the church for most of your life, learning the ways and observances of your deity and temple. Now you have finally come into your own, and are ready to take on a new role in life. Perhaps you have decided to continue growing in the priesthood, or maybe you have become disillusioned with the trappings of religious piety and decided to walk a new path. Either way, you are very knowledgeable of the inner workings and true face of the church. Bonus skills: Ceremony, Philosophy, Oratory, and ONE of the following: Scribe, Singing, or Bookbinding.
Animal Groom - You learned to tend horses or other large mounts, trimming hooves, rubbing down coats, and attending to basic veterinary care. It was your job to see to the comfort, feeding, and well-being of the beasts in your charge. You have taught yourself to read a creature's body language, and are adept at calming panicked animals. Bonus Skills: Animal Handling, Animal Training, Veterinary Healing, and ONE of the following: Riding - Land Based, Rope Use. 
Apothecary - You possess an extensive knowledge regarding the medicinal and alchemical properties of plants and fungi. You are able to prepare and prescribe a variety of medicines, ointments, salves, lotions, and tonics, as well as brew some rather nasty poisons. Maybe you have decided to adventure for knowledge … or out of necessity. Perhaps legends of a special ingredient called you to the road, or perhaps your reasons are your own. Bonus Skills: Herbalism, Mycology, Concocting, and ONE of the following: Toxicology, Healing, Reading/Writing. 
Armorer - You have studied the art of supplying warriors with a second skin. You know your way around a hammer and anvil, and the ability to work metal and leather are second-nature. Perhaps you became an adventurer to leave the forge behind, or perhaps you seek danger to gain knowledge of a warrior's demands of his armor in a way a book could never tell. Bonus Skills: Armorsmithing, Smelting, Leatherworking, and ONE of the following: Appraising, Armorer - Crude, Whitesmithing 
Artist - You were trained to express yourself and your ideas through your work, be it painting, sculpting, sketching, or handicraft. Your art speaks for you to those who are capable of understanding the deep concepts it conveys. Perhaps you've since given up active work for the life of an adventurer, or perhaps you seek to draw on your new experiences for inspiration in constructing your magnum opus. Bonus skills: Artist/Playwright, Poetry, Sculpting and ONE of the following: Flower arranging, Origami, Pottery. 
Bandit - You fell in with the wrong crowd earlier in life and learned to make money the old fashioned way: by stealing it. You've learned the art of getting in and out of a place in a hurry. You've also seen your share of the inside of jail cells and you know more than a little bit about living in the wilderness to avoid the law. Perhaps you've come clean since then - or perhaps not. Either way, you've picked up a few skills that can come in handy in a pinch. Bonus skills: Hiding, Looting, Intimidation, and ONE of the following: Appraisal, Riding - land based, Underclass, or Escape 
Barbarian - Civilization has never been your strong suit. You were raised in a tribal society which lived in closer harmony with the land than city folk. As a result you feel that you're more alive than the civilized milksops who are soft in the middle and probably wouldn't last a day outside their stone walls. Still, you can't deny that those walls are thick and difficult to breach. Perhaps you've come in from the cold to walk among the townspeople, or perhaps you're simply willing to accept that they choose to shield themselves from nature and their place in it. No matter how familiar you get with the ways of the urbanites, their customs continue to seem strange to you - and you suspect they always will. Bonus skills: Animal Rending, Survival, Foraging, and ONE of the following: Animal Noise, Weaponsmithing - Crude, Armorer - Crude, Clothesmaking - Crude, or Weather Sense. 
Barrister – You studied to be an attorney, but became disillusioned with the practice before turning to an adventurer's life. You know the way the legal system in your homeland really works, right down to the nuts and bolts. Perhaps corruption in the justice system soured you on the profession, or perhaps you sent a few people to prison who promised to give you what for when they were released. At any rate, you still have what it takes to get the legal ball rolling (or gum the works if that suits you), and you may still have a few friends in the system. Bonus Skills: Law, Bureaucracy, Intimidation, and ONE of the following: Reading/Writing, Sage Knowledge (Any), or Haggling.
Beggar - You know how it feels to be down on your luck. You were reduced to relying on the charity of others just to scrounge enough money to buy bread - or alcohol. Maybe you lost everything back during the war, or perhaps you mismanaged your life and squandered your assets. At any rate, that's all behind you now, and you look forward to a new life as an adventurer. But that's not to say you didn't learn anything while you were living on the street. Bonus Skills: Begging, Dirty Fighting, Feign/Detect Sleep and ONE of the following: Wild Fighting, City Familiarity, or Underclass. 
Bowyer/Fletcher - You come from a long line of individuals skilled in creating bows and arrows, and your products are superior to those of normal craftsment. Your weapons *never* break unless they have been mistreated (such as being dry-fired or left out in the rain), and you can sculpt bows and arrows in half the time of someone with just the Bowyer/Fletcher skill. You are also able to forge or knap your own arrowheads. Bonus Skills: Bowyer/Fletcher, Bowyer/Fletcher - Crude, Woodworking, and ONE of the following: Engineering, Artistic Ability, or Haggling. 
Caravan Guard - You were a mercenary paid to travel with important or sensitive shipments and guard them against bandits, orc raiders, and other undesirables. You got used to the idea of never staying in one place, or at the least you learned to like being away from home for extended periods. You have keen eyes, good instincts, and a natural distrust of strangers. Bonus Skills: Blind Fighting, Detect Signaling, Alertness, and ONE of the following: Intimidation, Style Analysis, or Orienteering. 
Cartwright - You made and sold wagons to whoever had the coin to buy them. You are a master at your craft, and still capable of producing both sturdy and elegant carts, wagons, and carriages - as well as seeing to their repair. If you can't fix it, it can't be fixed. Bonus Skills: Carpentry, Engineering, Charioteering, and ONE of the following: Animal Handling, Appraising, or Haggling. 
Cavalier - You have been taught to cultivate a noble spirit, holding in high-esteem the courtly graces and ideals of an honorable life. Perhaps you were bred into a knightly order, and possibly even called to walk the path of the Paladin. Your training was arduous and the lifestyle was demanding. Maybe you have followed through on your training and earned your spurs, or maybe you've decided to leave the fold for another less austere profession. Bonus Skills: Military Science, Display Weapon Prowess, Jousting, and ONE of the following: Riding-Land Based, Religion, or Light Sleeping. 
Criminal - You never cared much for the law, nor payed particular attention to rules and regulations handed down from on-high. Maybe you thought that being a law-abiding citizen was just a means of control by the State, or maybe the laws were so one-sided and unjust that they deserved to be broken. It's also possible that you've done hard time - or that somebody wants you to. Besides, stuff isn't illegal until you get caught, and everybody's doing it anyway. Bonus Skills: Forgery, Escape, Dirty Fighting, and ONE of the following: Information Gathering, Underclass, or Bureaucracy. 
Drunk - You fell into a bottle and stayed there for a long time. Alcohol seemed to dull the hard edges of life, and it became necessary for you to function. You've made quite a few friends in low places, but you've made your share of enemies too. Some would say that drinking ruined your life; maybe it has and maybe it hasn't. But now you're reasonably sober (or possibly a tee-totaler), and trying to take control of your life. Bonus Skills: Brewing, City Familiarity, Buffonery, and ONE of the following: Chicanery, Gaming, or Winemaking. 
Engineer - You have been trained in the nature of materials, physical forces, and common mechanical solutions to physical problems. You are adept at building and repairing complex machinery, as well as designing practical solutions to massive problems such as large-scale construction and irrigation. You can read and create blueprints and other technical diagrams, and any work project you head is completed both 20% earlier than projected and under budget. Perhaps you became an adventurer because you wanted to get away from a classroom and live a more exciting life, or perhaps you were forced out into the cold by forces beyond your control. Either way, you believe you are a valuable asset to any team. Bonus Skills: Engineering, Reading/Writing, Numeracy, and ONE of the following: Clockwork Creation, Quick Study, or Sage Knowledge. 
Farmer - You grew up poor, scratching out a living in the dirt and tending to animals. Maybe you learned to be proud of your closeness to the land and maybe you didn't. But there is little about basic survival you don't know. Perhaps you became an adventurer to get off the farm, or perhaps you were driven away after a fire or a raid. Bonus Skills: Agriculture, Animal Handling, Endurance, Weather Sense, and ONE of the following: Butchering, Rope Use, Veterinary Healing, or Blacksmithing. 
Fisher - You have learned how to make a living from the lakes, rivers, and seas of Ember and harvest their bounty. You have an instinctive understanding of the places fish prefer to inhabit, as well as when and what they might strike at. You're also no slouch when it comes to casting a net. You may select the Net or Spear weapon skills at no cost. Bonus Skills: Fishing, Boating, Swimming, and ONE of the following: Deep Diving, Riding-Sea Based, or Seamanship. 
Forester - You were a man of the woods, making your living by felling trees and cutting lumber. You're probably a no-nonsense fellow when it comes to getting work done, because felling timber leaves little room for horseplay and that might still run strong in you. Alertness, Woodcutting, Endurance, and ONE of the following: Ambidexterity, Survival, Rope Use, or Trail Marking. 
Fortune Teller - You had a nice racket going there for a while. Perhaps you were with a traveling circus, or maybe you made your own rounds peddling fortunes to those with coin. But those days are over. It's possible you tried to con the wrong guy - maybe even a member of one of the guilds - and going adventuring is safer than sticking around. Or perhaps one of your fortunes caused someone else harm and you've decided to swear off. Either way, you're pretty good at putting on an "oogie boogie" performance. And it's just possible that you really do know a thing or two about the spirit world. Bonus Skills: Fortune Telling, Omen Reading, Medium, and ONE of the following: Hypnotism, Dream Interpretation, Soothsaying, or Spirit Lore. 
Gambler - You like to live life on the edge, and aren't afraid to risk it all on the roll of a single die. You're good at reading other people, getting them to tell you things when they don't know they're saying anything at all. You also know the value of things, and have gotten pretty good at risk assessment. Perhaps you became an adventurer to escape a gambling debt, or perhaps you found out how much money there is to be had looting treasure hoards. But maybe - just maybe - you realized adventuring around the world puts you in touch with more hit-and-run patsies and their money. Bonus Skills: Gaming, Appraising, Observation, and ONE of the following: Persuasion, Fast-Talking, or Detect Signaling. 
Gladiator - You were a prize fighter in one of the illegal arenas. You lived for the applause of the crowd and the spectacle of a bloody match in front of hundreds of onlookers as they chanted your name. You also fought to make other people rich, knowing your owners would dispose of you once they could make more money off your death than your continued victory. Maybe you earned enough to buy your freedom or maybe you escaped, but fighting is all you know. One of your weapon proficiencies must be either Short Sword, Gladius, Net, Trident, Spiked Chain, or Katar. Bonus Skills: Blind Fighting, Intimidation, Crowd Working, and ONE of the Following: Wild Fighting, Close-Quarters Fighting, or Display Weapon Prowess. 
Glassblower - You've learned the art of sculpting liquid fire. Your creations are both beautiful and sublime. You are capable of creating tools or art as the situation warrants, and you can critique the work of others. You are also competent to work around and handle molten stone, glass, and metals, and supervise others in doing so. Bonus Skills: Glassblowing, Smelting, Artistic Ability, and ONE of the following: Fire Building, Sculpting, or Slow Respiration 
Guard - You were paid to protect other people's interests and property. You know how to watch for shady and suspicious characters, and you know how to bash a head when the time comes. But the life of standing around waiting on trouble to come got boring, so you took to the road to find fortune. Your experience as a guardsman comes in handy now that you're dealing with bypassing guards on a semi-regular basis yourself. You can find your way around them, judge their schedules, and levels of alertness. Bonus Skills: Observation, Intimidation, Blind Fighting and ONE of the following: Alertness, Detect Signaling, or Endurance. 
Guide - You were in the business of showing the sights to visiting rubbernecks and adventurers for a bit of coin. You have a good sense of when you're being scammed or short-changed, and you've learned to smell an ambush a mile away. Bonus Skills: Fast-Talking, Direction Sense, Navigation, and ONE of the following: City Familiarity, Trail Signs, or Distance Sense. 
Healer - Long study and patience have taught you to mend the broken bodies of others. Perhaps you worked as an assistant in a temple, or perhaps you became disillusioned with your former life as a member of the clergy and are now an apostate. But your gift for tending wounds and healing the sick has not left you. Maybe you've gone on to become a priest yourself! Everyone knows that you've got the gift, and you're always welcome wherever you go. Bonus Skills: Healing, Diagnostics, Anatomy, and ONE of the following: Herbalism, Mycology, Veterinary Healing or Toxicology. 
Hunter - You made your living tracking and killing game. You can follow a trail over water if you have to, and that comes in handy in adventuring life. You know how to set (and avoid) snares and traps, as well as how to effectively and efficiently prepare an animal for storage. Bonus Skills: Hunting, Tracking, Set Snares, Animal Lore, and ONE of the following: Animal Rending, Butchering, or Sound Imitation.
Jeweler - You have a love of the things that glimmer, shimmer, sparkle, and shine. You can identify individual gemstones, jewels, precious and semi-precious stones, and worthless glass, as well as give an estimate of its value. Perhaps you come from a long line of jewelers and jewel merchants, or perhaps you learned the trade via illicit channels. But that love of jewelry is what prompted you to go adventuring - tales of riches beyond your wildest dreams lying in wait in dusty tombs, ready for the taking! Bonus Skills: Gem Cutting, Appraising, Haggling, and ONE of the following: Observation, Concentration, or Whitesmithing. 
Leatherworker - You were taught how to harvest animals, tan their hides, and craft tools, clothing, and art from them. You can create twice the material of a regular leatherworker in the same amount of time without the need for a skill check, no matter the intricacy or delicacy of the piece. Bonus Skills: Leatherworking, Animal Lore, Anatomy, and ONE of the following: Clothesmaking, Crude, Animal Rending, or Butchering. 
Limner/Painter – You worked in the construction business, creating nice places for rich people to live and restoring old buildings to their former glory. As a result, you are an expert in creating frescoes and laying stucco, and you've seen the damage water and mold can do to hard work. You can also spot plastered doors and sealed entryways to abandoned chambers. Bonus Skills: Stonemasonry, Pottery, Sculpting, and ONE of the following: Landscape Gardening, Artistic Ability, or Mycology. 
Mason - You have developed an eye for good stonework and the techniques for constructing it. You understand about loads, stresses, and relief points, and are competent in identifying sloppy, unsafe, or booby-trapped construction, as well as identifying the construction style and giving an estimate of its age. When you do work yourself, you are capable of producing 50% more construction in an equivalent amount of time when compared to other masons. Perhaps the market fell out of the construction business, or perhaps you (or someone you know) suffered an injury which prompted you to take to the road. Bonus Skills: Stonemasonry, Mining, Sculpting, and ONE of the following: Rope Use, Artistic Ability, or Engineering. 
Miner - You have spent a lot of time under the earth while excavating its riches, and are competent to process them and oversee the general operations of a mining team. You've developed a feel for the safety of a passage and when it's a good idea to clear out. Maybe you were even once caught in a cave-in. But you know how to survive in the deep darkness where another would perish. You spend a lot more time above ground now than you used to, but even still, when an opportunity arises to delve into a cavern in search of adventure, you have to admit that it gets the blood pumping just like old times. Bonus Skills: Mining, Administration, Caving, and ONE of the following: Rope Use, Spelunking, or Smelting. 
Navigator - It was your job to sight an astrolabe and confer with charts to find your position on the high seas. You are comfortable with simple calculations and estimations of position. You are also adept at telling time. Should you serve as navigator for a party, the chance of becoming hopelessly lost drops to zero. You may not regularly work on ships any longer, but once you've been touched by Oleander, there will always be something about the water that calls to you. Bonus Skills: Navigation, Orienteering, Seamanship and ONE of the following: Tightrope Walking, Rope Use, or Direction Sense.
Noble – You come from a highborn family of good breeding and means. You have long had your every whim catered to, and you are accustomed to getting your way. Perhaps your family name has been besmirched, or perhaps your estate was lost due to political upheaval or intrigue. Maybe you were even bored with the smothering safety of the soft life and decided it was time to experience more of what life beyond the garden wall had to offer. Either way, you have abandoned highborn society for the life of an adventurer. Unfortunately, your aristocratic demeanor tends to occasionally rub people the wrong way. Bonus skills: Etiquette, Musical Instrument, Reading/Writing, Artistic Ability and ONE of the following: Falconry, Dancing, Bureaucracy.
Performer – You once made your way in life by entertaining others, either by feats of daring-do, oratory, or sleight-of-hand tricks and/or juggling. Either way you made your money by putting on shows and entertaining others. Bonus skills: Juggling, Oratory, Tightrope Walking, and ONE of the following: Crowd Working, Musical Instrument, or Athletics.
Poet - You are capable of coming up with witty barbs and stinging insults when the need arises. Perhaps you took to the road to gain inspiration for your magnum opus ... or perhaps that's what you tell everyone since you were laughed off the stage after your most recent bomb. Whatever the reason for adventuring, you still have a way with words. Bonus Skills: Oratory, Reading/Writing, Artist/Playwright, and ONE of the following: Crowd Working, Rhetoric, or Persuasion.
Pirate - You were a bandit of the high seas and waterways. You did not respect the laws of the various nations who attempted to claim ownership of the oceans, and you've boarded more than one vessel before plundering its hold, opening its hatches, and sending it down to the bottom to rot. But somewhere along the way something changed. Perhaps you were captured and reformed, or perhaps you wanted to see what treasure lay hidden on land. Skills: Close-Quarters Fighting, Seamanship, Intimidation and ONE of the following: Swimming, Looting, or Forgery.
Sailor - You were a professional in the navy. You know your way around a ship, and are trained to keep it in good working (and fighting) order. If you are allowed to helm a vessel, its seaworthiness rating improves by 10% as a result of your expertise. Maybe your commission ran dry, or perhaps you wanted to chase treasure and fame on dry land. But no matter what, you'll always feel at home on the waves. Bonus Skills: Seamanship, Rowing, Shipwright, and ONE of the following: Swimming, Navigation, or Tightrope Walking.
Scribe - You were lettered at a young age and were taught a love of books. You are adept at copying manuscripts and accompanying illustrations, and even cataloging events for posterity. You could have taken up adventuring for a number of reasons, but almost all of them boil down to becoming bored with academic life. One thing is for sure; your life is a lot more exciting now. Bonus Skills: Calligraphy, Reading/Writing, Papermaking, Bookbinding and ONE of the following: Heraldry, Forgery, or Artistic Ability.
Scout - You did some time in the army as a specialist, and you specialized in finding out the things your commanders wanted to know. It was your job to travel ahead of the main force to do recon. You got good at the art of sneaking in, getting your intel, and getting back out alive again. Sometimes it was a clean job, and sometimes you got a lot of exercise, but those days are behind you now. Even still, old habits die hard and you still like to practice your skills in an adventuring group. Some things never change. Bonus Skills: Hiding, Alertness, Observation, and ONE of the following: Trail Signs, Camouflage, or Running.
Sheltered - You grew up in a very protected environment and were kept away from dangerous situations and ideas. As a result, others may see you as being naive and having no common sense. However you did receive the standard gentleman's education. But perhaps that wasn't enough for you. Mayhap you decided that there was more to life than the walled garden you were raised in, or maybe your world crumbled and you were thrown out into the cold. If so, this whole adventuring gig is just one big shock after another. Bonus Skills: Any FOUR of the following: Grooming, Masseur, Origami, Flower Arranging, Cooking, Poetry, Numeracy, Reading/Writing, or Etiquette.
Shepherd - You lived a lonely and pastoral life tending to the herds and warding away predators. Living and sleeping outside, you learned to become tough and resourceful, as well as learning how to live in tune with the land. You sometimes remark that adventuring life isn't really all that big of a change. Bonus Skills: Animal Handling, Weather Sense, Veterinary Healing and ONE of the following: Sound Imitation, Alertness, Mountaineering.
Soldier - You were a regular in the army. You know how to give and take orders and function as part of a coherent and trained group. Sometimes the individuality of your companions in a combat situation gripes you, but you do what you can to not let it get to you. You may have given up on soldiering when you got out of the army, or maybe you like to sign on to mercenary groups because it's the only life you know. Either way, you got some good training out of the deal. Skills: Soldiers gain a +1 bonus to hit, damage, and their Armor Class rating when operating in a group with other soldiers. Bonus Skills: Athletics, Military Science, Endurance, and ONE of the following:  Ambidexterity, Charioteering, Blind Fighting, or Riding-Land Based.
Shipwright - For as long as you can remember you've been involved with ships and the sea. Maybe you started out working on the docks as a longshoreman, or maybe being a shipwright is a family tradition. You do exemplary work, and you can repair or construct a ship 25% faster than most others. Ships you repair gain an additional 10% seaworthiness bonus. Bonus Skills: Shipwright, Boatwright, Carpentry, and ONE of the following: Engineering, Woodworking, or Swimming.
Smuggler - You specialized in trafficking contraband, stolen goods ... and maybe even slaves. You've learned how to keep cool when being searched, and you know how to hide things where the guards won't think to look. If you put your mind to it, you're certain you can get anyone or anything into or out of whatever area the job calls for. Bonus Skills: Fast Talking, Disguise, Observation, Forgery, and ONE of the following: Intimidation, Danger Sense, Assimilation, or Navigation.
Spy - You were a covert operator who specialized in obtaining closely guarded secrets. You might have worked for a powerful noble or merchant clan ... maybe even a monarch. You've gathered secret documents, wooed powerful members of the opposite sex, and even gone deep undercover to ferret out information vital to your organization's interests. You don't often talk about your old life of espionage, but that doesn't mean you don't still know a trick or two. Bonus Skills: Information Gathering, Reading Lips, Assimilation and ONE of the following: Enamor, Observation, or Bureaucracy.
Tailor/Weaver - You used to cut cloth and sew clothing for a living. You've got a good eye for fabric, and are comfortable working with everything from the lightest gossamer weave to coarse leather. You have incredibly steady hands and sharp eyes. Whenever you do weaving or tailoring work, no skill check is required to determine success. Your poorest work is exemplary. Bonus Skills: Seamstress/Tailor, Origami, Weaving, and ONE of the following: Silk Making, Cobbling, or Ambidexterity.
Teamster/Freighter - You were paid to haul goods all over the country. You have extensive knowledge of maps and the various byways that criss cross the land, and you don't know anybody who has spent more time jockeying a wagon and punching mules than you have. Maybe you had a falling out with some customers, or maybe bandits hit your caravan for everything you have and you were lucky enough to survive. But now you've become an adventurer for a change of pace, or possibly a shot at revenge. Bonus Skills: Animal Handling, Charioteering, Orienteering, and ONE of the following: Signaling, Local History, Animal Training.
Thespian - You've been trained in the art of putting on a show. You can convincingly deliver dialogue and interact with others in a troupe to put on a play and produce entertainment for the masses. Maybe you're tired of portraying the adventures of others and now you want to get out into the real world and experience adventure first hand. Or possibly you thought the adventurer's life would be a good exercise in method acting and fell so completely into the role that you've realized this is what you really want to do. Bonus Skills: Disguise, Acting, Crowd Working, and ONE of the following: Prestidigitation, Buffoonery, or Voice Mimicry.
Tinker - You like to craft, jigger, and fiddle with things. You've always been curious as to how things work, and you never were beyond taking them apart to find out. Your curiosity has left you with nimble and steady hands and a mind that is sharp as a tack. It's likely there are areas in which you could be considered an authority on par with the greatest in the field ... if anybody ever noticed. But you've heard of wondrous curiosities to be found in the ruins and lairs about Ember, and perhaps that is why you've taken up adventuring life. Or maybe one of your contraptions or experiments went wrong and you were run out of town. Bonus Skills: Engineering, Clockwork Creation, Concocting, and ONE of the following: Alchemy, Research, Sage Knowledge, or Glass Blowing.
Trader/Barterer - You were a merchant, and possibly had a special stock in trade such as furs, ores, or even weapons or foodstuffs. You know a good deal when you hear one, and you're one of the best hagglers around. You gain a +1 bonus to all haggling and appraising rolls. Bonus Skills: Haggling, Fast-Talking, Appraising, and ONE of the following: Alertness, Chicanery, or Persuasion.
Trapper/Skinner - You were a man of the wild, making your living catching small animals and dealing in the fur trade. You know what makes for a good hide or pelt, and can spot shoddy work with a glance. You're skilled at setting both live catch and kill traps, and you're adept at tanning hides. Maybe it was your love of the wilderness that got you interested in adventuring, or perhaps there was an accident with one of your traps that made you rethink your life and take to the road. Bonus Skills: Appraisal, Leatherworking, Set Snares, and ONE of the following: Rope Use, Survival or Pest Control.
Weaponsmith - You learned the weaponmakers trade at a young age. You know how to operate a forge and a bellows, and are skilled in selecting and heat treating steels to bring out their best qualities for weaponry. You know how to identify and grade the work of others, and generally can produce 50% more material than most other weaponsmiths in a similar span of time. Weapons tempered and sharpened by you gain a +1 to hit and damage the next time they are used. Maybe you lost your apprenticeship under a master smith, or perhaps you became an adventurer to learn what is truly demanded by the men-at-arms who trust their lives to your weapons in an attempt to improve them. Bonus Skills: Weaponsmithing, Smelting, Fire Building, and ONE of the following: Blacksmithing, Whitesmithing, or Weaponsmithing-Crude.
Woodworker/Carpenter - You have a love of wood and crafting. You were taught to Shape, turn, and join timber into shelters and ornamentation, and are a skilled carver. When you head a construction project it is finished in 20% less time and under budget. You can build anything from houses to chairs with ease. Maybe you became an adventurer because you grew bored with construction work. Or perhaps powerful forces turned your world upside-down. Bonus Skills: Carpentry, Woodworking, Woodcutting and ONE of the following: Rope Use, Engineering, or Endurance.
Layabout - You've lived your life from day to day somehow managing not to actually learn much of anything. You have no marketable skills and recieve no bonuses as a result. Perhaps this is the first thing you've ever put your mind to, or perhaps you've been sheltered, lucky, or both. But you feel that this adventuring thing seems to have promise.
The Privateer – For those who love adventure, there is no better alternative than the open sea, living the life of a legally sanctioned pirate. You sell your sword to the highest bidder, making coin and enemies wherever you fare. You know your way around a ship at sea, as well as who to take for ransom. Bonus Skills: Swimming, Rope Use, Seamanship and ONE of the following: Deep Diving, Intimidation, or Navigation.
The Longshoreman – A self-styled “man of nature”, you come from the tribes outside the urban centers where respect is still earned, and people live in tune with the land as Kerberos intended. You're not afraid to get dirty – it builds character, and the Druids would be pleased. Bonus Skills: Survival, Animal Handling, Skinning, and ONE of the following: Animal Lore, Weather Sense, or Hunting
A Keeper of the Old Ways – Pining for days long past when the elves ruled this portion of the world, you are fascinated by the Old Empire and the ways of the Druids. You believe that in the days of Angellica, things were not just different, but better. As a result, you seek out history and artifacts for personal enlightenment. You might even belong to the Sons of Kerberos or the Angellican Society. Bonus Skills: Ancient History, Ancient Geography, Appraising, and ONE of the following: Ancient Language (Angellican), Looting, or Bookbinding.
The Fop – Growing up in the cities has brought you refined tastes and preferences. You've heard stories about warriors of legend, but you're not used to getting dirty and sleeping outside. Maybe you want to see how the “other half” lives, or maybe you have a head full of dreams and are seeking glory. You've spent your life getting by on your natural charm and honeyed words, and maybe – just maybe – it's time for a change. Bonus Skills: Ceremony, Etiquette, City Familiarity and ONE of the following: Information Gathering, Oratory, or Enamor.
Icebreaker Corpsman – You are a sea-going sot specifically trained to keep the waterways open and the ship underway in freezing conditions. You know a thing or two about working with ice and snow, and are good at getting it to do what you want. Maybe you've spent time on a ship already, or perhaps you've just signed on to the Icebreaker Corps and are awaiting an assignment. Bonus Skills: Spell Specialization, Weather Sense, Observation, and ONE of the following: Tactics of Magic, Spellcraft, or Spell Recovery.
Runner – Sometimes a message has to be delivered with urgency, and when that time comes, they call for a runner. You specialized in getting information or small items from place to place discreetly and in a hurry. Perhaps you plied your trade in the army, or even worked for one of the other Upper Houses, but you know how to suck wind and put the distance behind you. Bonus Skills: Running, Endurance, Athletics and ONE of the following: Hard Running, Distance Sense, or Direction Sense
Tunnel Rat – Mining is a rough business, and sometimes things can go horribly wrong in a big hurry. When that happens, they call you. Or at least they used to. When a tunnel was unsafe or flooded, or partially collapsed, you were the one who went to scout it out so the foreman could devise a plan. But now you don't do that business anymore. Perhaps you were injured on a crawl, or maybe you came to your senses and just thought it was a good time to quit while you were still alive. Either way, there's one thing for certain – nobody's better to have along underground than you. Bonus Skills: Spelunking, Caving, Rope Use, and ONE of the following: Time Sense, Mining, or Deep Diving.
Bombardier – Some love fighting up close and personal with the enemy, while others would rather rain down grief from a safe distance. You're in the latter camp. You've spent time in the army working with siege engines such as catapults and ballistae, and can put a boulder in a trash can from half a mile away. Now you're doing this adventuring thing, but your knowledge of heavy machinery and fortification (especially analyzing and defeating said fortification) still comes in handy from time to time. Bonus Skills: Numeracy, Engineering, Carpentry, and ONE of the following: Woodcutting, Rope Use, or Stonemasonry.
Windwalker – Those who have weathered a storm on the Great Plains are said to have been touched by the gods. You are such a one. You have endured the fury of the winds and slashing rain, and seen the raw power of Nature laid bare before you – and against you. The herdsmen say that you should be dead – that were it not for the hand of a god upon your shoulder that day, your broken body would have been on a pyre like many before you. Perhaps this has brought you a kind of peace few can know, or perhaps it has turned you into an adrenaline junkie. Bonus Skills: Any 2 of cost 2 or less.
Herdsman – You were born on the vast open plains of Lokor among the Great Herds. You are both free and strong, and you've never seen much point in hiding within the cities. The dome of the sky is your roof, and the grasses your favorite bed. Perhaps you were exiled from your tribe, or perhaps you are on a noble quest for knowledge only adventure brings. But whatever the case, being able to identify as a Herdsmen is a matter of great pride. Bonus Skills: Survival, Fire Building, Animal Rending and ONE of the following: Horde Summoning, Weather Sense, or Intimidation.
Firedancer – You were brought up into the time-honored tradition of twirling, whirling, and performing dangerous stunts with fire. You know the secrets of eating, breathing, and handling flame, and can even set portions of yourself ablaze without risk of harm. Your training means that you understand fire like few others do, and you are not afraid of it. “Fire burns only fools”, or so the saying goes. Now that you've left the performing life behind, you find that your intimacy with fire hasn't left you. Bonus Skills: Juggling, Dancing, Fire Building, and ONE of the following: Buffoonery, Ambidexterity, or Tumbling.
Seeker – There are fans of history and then there are historians. The Acandian Empire left a lot behind after their fall, and you know just what to do with it. You know that curating and cataloging their artifacts can be a dangerous business – what with the rune magic they used and all. Maybe you're still affiliated with the Seekers of the Source and maybe you're not, but nobody is a better authority on Acandian artifacts than you. Bonus Skills: Ancient History (Acandia), Ancient Languages (Wuuth – Read & Write), Ancient Geography, and ONE of the following: Appraising, Scribe, or Fast Talking.
Courtesan - You were once a professional escort who specialized in providing companionship to those willing to pay. You've probably seen some things and done some things your mother wouldn't be proud of, but you've survived. Now you've decided to strike out on different kinds of adventures, and you know you'll be okay. If you can handle some of the worst Johns, what's an ogre or two? Bonus Skills: Information Gathering, Enamor, Haggling and ONE of the following: Alertness, Persuasion, or Underclass.