Curses often and apologizes each time
Habitually picks his fingers with his dagger
Picks his nose and/or pulls out a nose hair.
Flips a coin and checks how it lands before answering questions.
Constantly pulls on his ear.
Comes close and puts his hands on those he talks to.
Has a cat that always follows and comes when he calls.
Has a lazy eye.
Kisses a token on a necklace often for luck.
Has horrible garlic breath.
Bows as he speaks in a subserviant manner.
Tries to make jokes and laughs loudly at everything.
Answers every question with another question and thinks he's sly.
Occasionally loses track of the conversation as if bored.
Has an eye for someone and leads all conversation toward them in some way. i.e. "That's funny ... Heather says the same thing."
Puts out his hand for some coins if any question is asked.
Is constantly chewing on something.
Frequently offers to buy things from others, such as their belt, pouch, weapon, shirt, or jewelry. Offers money for everything.
Has a habit of constantly looking over his shoulder as if expecting someone.
Trips often when he walks
Doesn't understand anything explained to him
Misunderstands everything explained to him.
Tends to genuinely agree with anything other people say.
Tends to agree with anything other people say, but it's just lip service.
Habitually twirls a coin between his fingers.
Is constantly shuffling cards or rolling dice.
Often has conversations with himself. He thinks this is normal and explains that he likes to "think out loud" if questioned about it.
Uses odd expletives, such as "Spoon!"
Makes odd random noises.
Habitually cracks his knuckles.
Has a nerveous twitch.
Has two differently colored eyes.
Fingernails are dark green with a fungus.
His eyebrow hairs closest to his nose are execptionally long, like antennae.
Has that skin condition that leaves a wine colored stain on his face.
Shuffles his feet.
Always has one hand in his pocket.
Wants to be bribed by an addition to his unusual collection, like odd hats or the big toes of unusual creatures.
Likes to suck eggs.
Eats peanuts in the shell ... and the shell too
Has a catch phrase that makes no sense, like "Rocks can!" or "Oranges don't dance."
Has a hairless pet that he dresses up and fawns over.
Has a spoon he keeps in his mouth and treats like a pipe.
Always manages to be eating some type of pie.
Dances for any reason whatsoever.
Pops nuts or small fruits off his bicep and catches them in his mouth.
Manages to choke on anything he drinks.
Has a strange allergic reaction - contact with copper gives him hives
Has a strange allergic reaction - imbibing alchohol gives him a rash
Makes a nickname for everyone and most objects as well. Calls spoons "soup shovels", calls knives "sharpie-sharps", gold "pretty pennies", etc
Tends to pass gas out of hand - is oblivious to others' reactions.
Puts a small umbrella in everything edible. Drinks, sandwiches, soup, fruit, crackers, cheese, etc.
Frequently gets the hiccups
He has horribly scarred/burned face and hands.
Walks with a limp and a cane.
Often talks in a whisper.
Is missing all front upper teeth.
He is an expert rat catcher. Will jump or chase a rat if he sees it, even during mid-conversation.
An unbalanced drunk, always falling or tipping.
Calls everyone Skipper. Chappy. Cap'n. Lala.
Has inside of coat full of trinkets and small jewelry for sale.
Knows some nice ladies that would love to meet you.
Frequently sings everything he says.
Missing an ear. 
Talks like a pirate. Arrrgh.
Knows everybody of 'inconsequence' and is constantly interrupted by saying hi to people.
Wears an unusual medical device, like some headgear attatched to thier nose instead of braces on thier teeth, or a glove with fingertips a foot long.
Tends to put or keep things up his nose.
Is oblivious to the fact they're indecently exposed.
Has a club limb
Has an elaborate tattoo that seems out of place on his person - a fat pink bunny on his biceps
Has an elaborate tattoo with sinister overtones - a winged skull on the back of his hand.
Often runs into things.
Has six fingers on his right hand
Is unaware he has a tattoo on his forehead.
Goes crosseyed when excited.
Has teeth filed to points.
Ears wiggle uncontrolably when lying.
Carves small vegetables with remarkable skill into people, animals, and things, then smashes and eats them.
Has a small corner of a printed circut board for an earring; swears it's some kind of shale and an old family heirloom.
Keeps unsuccessfully trying to make jokes about dead animals.
Has one conspicuously green finger.
Has one oddly purple finger.
Has one unusually red finger.
Has one orange-stained finger.
Has a cloak kept closed with a strip of wool and split burr shells.
Can't stand being asked the same question three times.
The joints of one limb occasionally freeze and can only be used again after they're beaten.
Has a ludicrously long nose
Has a parrot-like nose
Keeps slaves on a chain behind him
Has lost an eye and replaced it with a gem
Has a bone pierced through his nose
Has shining white teeth
The character believes that he is an illegitimate child of someone important (maybe even a king or god)
The character is an illegitimate child of someone important (maybe even a king or god)
Believes that he is cursed in some way
Scratches his head often
Scratches his beard often
Scratches a random body part often
Obsessed with diets and weight loss
Considers himself extremely smart, and tries to show it
Does not like physical contact with others
Non-stop fresh and full of energy
Does not like bright sunlight - prefers the shadows
Sharp-eyed, seems to notice everything that happens around
If unmoving for some time, his bones make a loud cracking sound when he stretches a bit.
After experiencing a stressful situation the character needs to be alone for awhile
Likes a certain animal above everyone and everything else
Sometimes talks out loud to a dead relative or friend (John, I wish you were here. I don't know how I'm going to get out of this one...)
Considers himself a very impressive individual
Must always have the last word
Has the ability to effectively communicate with drunks
Extremely picky with food
Pretends nothing can harm him
Looks sleepy, yawns a lot... (watch out, contagious!)
Bears more than a passing resemblance to a monkey
Has a supernatural talent which he actively conceals and wants to be rid of.
Is looking for True Love.
It is unacceptable (for moral, religious, social, or health reasons) for this person to get drunk, but he *really* wishes he could.
Is a master of some bizzare local sport
Was a master of some bizzare local sport
Is secretly a member of some well-known cult or organisation
Is a devout follower of some deity, but conceals it for reasons known only to him
Did not want this lot in life, but it was forced on him anyway, and he's going to complain about it
Promises revenge for all evil done to him
Appears malnourished
Has an unevenly grown beard that he constantly scratches.
Does everything with a flourish.
Wishes he was a royal and is jealous of those that are.
Merchant minded and always looking for a new angle.
Keeps checking in his pocket for something as if making sure it is still there.
Has a wooden staff that he is constantly rubbing or using to lean on.
Has a large hat that he is constantly taking off and putting back on.
Wears a shirt that is too small. The fabric is straining against the buttons, leaving the character's belly exposed.
The character has no belt and is constantly pulling up his pants.
Wishes to purchase some farm land and retire.
Has some black market goods for sale.
Very inquisitive about everything. Wants every detail.
Looking to learn a talent that another PC has and is willing to pay for it.
Asks about contacts or people to see in different cities.
Very interested in a previous NPC that he has met.
Very interested in an item another PC possesses, and is looking to get one of his own.
Is obsessed with hygene. Subtly suggests that offending individuals are smelly and need a bath. "I can't wait to get to town. A nice, warm bath would feel *so* relaxing, wouldn't it?"
Is obsessed with hygene. Blatantly suggests that offending individuals are smelly and need a bath. "You might want to take a bath before someone plants corn on you."
Is obsessed with hygene. Rudely suggests that offending individuals are smelly and need a bath. "You smell like dung - take a bath."
Insanely paranoid.
Acts insane around people he doesn't like.
Acts insane around strangers.
Acts insane around people in general.
Acts like a drooling idiot for unknown reasons.
Constantly hums or sings off key.
He is constantly fiddling with something.
Treats any and all creatures as sentient, whether they are or not.
Treats any and all objects as sentient.
Is afraid of dust.
Is obsessive compulsive.
Likes to speak in riddles
Often speaks in an inappropriately loud voice.
Freaks out over some small, common item or detail
Constantly spewing useless and/or gross facts
Perma-scowl (always scowling)
Instantly hates a person for no good reason and knows it.
Believes he is a miniture giant
Extremely egotistical
Constantly running schemes past people
Punchs/kicks people for small mistakes
Always tells lies
Asks random people if they are willing to be a sacrifice for an obscure deity
Wants a pet ooze/slime
Thinks they're a legandary hero suffering from a geas (may or may not be true.)
Constantly twirls a gold coin between his fingers
Hasn't bathed forever and is very smelly
Tendency to stare evenly at attractive women
Squints often
Hums under his breath at odd times
Loves animals more than people
Enjoys eating raw onions
Mutters to himself when frustrated with others
Moves as if sneaking about even in daylight with people around
Has some magic beans given to him by his mother
Annoyingly melancholy and negative
Never smiles
Spits often as a curse
Refers to most others as boy or lass untill they prove themselves
Has an intricate tribal tatoo covering his back - very secretive about it
Sometimes makes throaty growling noises
Has pierced eyebrows
Has an irrational fear of the number 14
Has a tendency to stop half-way through a sentence, pause then go back and correct himself
Always wears a scarf wrapped tightly around his neck, even indoors. It could be he's cold, or there might be something more sinister...
Is short but somehow dominates the room. Maybe it's the piercing eyes
Has an obsession with making his own clothes. As a result his clothes are tatty
Impulsively counts things (e.g. number of bricks in a wall, number of words in a sentence)
Always knows better
Finishes sentences with "so..." (e.g. "I've been to the King and he said yes, so...")
Giggles when he hears random words, saying "That's dirty!"
During pauses in the conversation, he gazes longingly in the direction of a man/woman across the room.
Repeats a key word of every person that he hears speak and nods as if in agreement.
Relieves himself wherever it is convenient for him. (nearest wall, darkest corner, behind a fruit stand)
Doesn't, under any circumstances, wear shoes.
Constantly picks a scab causing it to bleed.
Carries a wand. Doesn't do anything with it, but he is always fidgeting with it. When asked about it he will grunt out incoherencies and change the subject.
Compares everything to the days of youth, when everything was so much better, and the world was not as it is today, and...
Before actually talking to someone, the character carefully scans his footprints first.
Claims to be able to Detect Lies.
Is known to occasionally offer a nice sum in gold if people do _not_ talk to him.
Orienteering-disabled, has a hard time to navigate own village or town, cannot show way to any place.
Occassionaly makes rapid moves or something a bit unexpected, only to say: 'Now that was a surprise, huh?'
Likes to wear a costume of some ancient hero, and tries to play him or her to the smallest detail.
Immersed into a new fascinating philosophy involving meditating in trance, tea rituals, etc.
Plans to write a book about the inevitable fall of this civilisation.
An artistic soul, seeks beauty in the ugly things (and people). Like you.
He is very curt and economical in his speech, keeping all sentences as short as possible.
Avoids any kind of personal contact, is terribly afraid of poisoning or getting dirty or catching some disease.
Writes everything down into a little notebook.
Has found something valuable, and asks others if they've lost it. However he will start to raise doubts should they agree.
Has just paid the taxes or a loan, and complains everywhere on the terrible rates, that this is practically thievery, etc.
An up-and-coming activist, wants to change some obscure and little used law for even more obscure reasons. And you could help!
He is an escaped prisoner, in stolen clothes, and is looking for a place to hide.
Loves to invent and tell spooky stories, anytime.
Asks you to become a 'dummy', for some unpleasant activity, like self-defense training.
Threatens to commit suicide if this continues.
Dodges questions, with the body at least.
Startlingly begins to shout in MIDDLE OF THE SENTENCE
Irritatingly modest, even about things that he had nothing to do with
Scratches and claws at his scalp in a distracting manner
Spits out unidentifiable bits of mush during lulls in conversation
Sometimes becomes noticeably angry for no reason
Mutters or mouths words to himself after he is done speaking.
His eyes water constantly, making him look miserable and sad
Flips a coin and checks how it lands before answering questions.
Tries to make jokes and loudly laughs at everything.
Has conversations with himself
Sings everything he says.
Talks like Austin Powers.
Cannot correctly pronounce a party member's name, no matter how many times it's explained to them.
Pops pimples and zits in the midst of conversation.
He occasionally trails off in the middle of an important sentence and wanders away. If pursued, he will turn around and start again where he left off.
Spells out words before he S-A-Y-S says them.
Is constantly spewing useless and/or gross facts
Likes to speak in riddles
Repeats a key word of every person that he hears spoken and nods as if in agreement.
Mutters to himself when frustrated with others.
Constantly hums or sings off key.
Tends to ask stupid questions.
Constantly pulls on his ear.
Kisses a token on a necklace often for luck.
Constantly chewing on something.
Tends to bow and speak in a subserviant manner.
Cracks his knuckles.
Has a nerveous twitch.
Constantly looking over his shoulder as if he expects somebody.
Shuffles his feet.
Has a hand stuffed into his shirt, ala Napoleon
Scratches and claws at his scalp in a distracting manner
Sneezes without covering the mouth.
Has a habit of chewing on sticks.
Never smiles.
Moves as if sneaking about even in daylight or with people around.
During pauses in the conversation, he gazes longingly in the direction of a woman across the room.
Narcoleptic/Cataleptic
Tends to stare at attractive women.
Licks walls (not as uncommon as it may sound)
Absent-mindedly waggles a leg or hand at a speed which varies with how excited they are
Has a lazy eye.
Has no problem passing gas around strangers - doesn't seem to understand it's inappropriate.
Is given to fits of hiccups.
Missing an ear. leg. foot. arm...
Has a club limb.
Has a prosthetic limb.
Has a parrot-like nose
Constantly sniffles and/or suffers from a runny nose.
Squints often.
Feet stink but doesn't notice.
Very heavy/noisy breather
Socks keep falling down so has to keep pulling them up.
Has no belt and is constantly pulling up his pants.
Annoying, melancholy, and negative, suffers from severe depression.
Aversion to heat.
Aversion to light.
Aversion to certain animals (eg. insects, magpies, frogs)
The character is a germophobe. Avoids any kind of personal contact - is terribly afraid of poisoning or getting dirty or catching some disease.
Enjoys exotic drinks with something alive in it. Like a fish or small octopus, maybe a frog or snake.
Extremely picky with food
Carves small vegetables with remarkable skill into people, animals, and things, then smashes and eats them.
Always manages to be eating some type of pie.
Enjoys eating raw onions.
Drinks only water.
Has a wooden staff that he is constantly rubbing or using to lean on.
Has magic beans given to him by his mother.
Acts insane around people he doens't like.
Acts insane around strangers.
Acts like a drooling idiot for unknown reasons.
Has an eye for one of the players and leads all conversation towards that.
Is a secret follower of some god/cult/organisation, that is not in the the least way secret
Is very interested in a previous NPC that he has met. Possibly because they owe him money.
Does not like physical contact with others
Asks about contacts or people to see in different cities.
Is constantly running schemes past people
Punches/kicks people for small mistakes
Asks random people if they are willing to be a sacrifice for an obscure deity
Dreams of someday opening a restaurant
Can predict the weather with perfect accuracy.
Has a talent for finding wild potatoes and can cook them like nothing you have ever tasted.
Loves to invent and tell spooky stories, anytime.
Merchant minded and always looking for a new angle.
Constantly makes reference to things which seem random at the time but which later turn out that he could never have known because they hadn't happened yet (e.g. is humming the main theme from an opera the day before its premiere, talks about King John when the current reigning monarch is King Fred who later that day abdicates in favor of his younger brother, John)
Has a cat that always follows and comes when he calls.
Is oblivious to the fact that he is indecently exposed.
Collects hair from everybody he meets. Has braids tied all over himself from hair he has "borrowed."
Writes everything down into a little notebook.
Is an escaped prisoner, in stolen clothes, and is looking for a place to hide.
Carries a wand. Doesn't do anything with it, but he is always fidgeting with it. When asked about it he will grunt out incoherencies and change the subject.
Is legitimately paranoid, because someone or something really IS out to get him.
Always seen sitting in the same place. He is never seen anywhere else
Does everything with a flourish.
Non-stop fresh and full of energy
Believes that the end justifies the means
Is terrified of entering melee combat.
Will not ever drink alcohol.
Can’t leave a bar without having a drink.
Treats his weapon like the love of his life.
Treats his steed or animal companion better than people.
Will not ride an animal.
Always makes religious gestures when leaving a temple even though he is not religious.
Has a fear of mice.
Has a fear of frogs.
Has a fear of squirrels.
Has a fear of birds.
Always answers questions with questions.
Prefers to sleep outside over sleeping inside buildings.
Only eats raw meat not cooked meat.
Takes trophies from all of his kills.
B.A. Baracus Syndrome – Refuses to fly via any means (flying creature/flying spell/flying vehicle/etc.).
Occasionally speaks in another language that no one understands (since it doesn’t truly exist).
Walks barefoot everywhere, does not use footwear.
Wears an excessive amount of gaudy jewelry.
Only wears one specific color of clothing.
Devotes intense study to a mundane topic (bird feathers).
Devotes intense study to a mundane topic (denisty of various liquids).
Devotes intense study to a mundane topic (temperature of caves).
Requires being pampered whenever available (hot baths at inns/massages while in town/fancy meals in restaurants/etc.).
Obsessed with creating a written chronicle of his journeys.
Obsessed with creating songs about his journeys.
Always sings songs when traveling from one destination to another.
Doesn’t like children and is incredibly awkward when dealing with them.
Doesn’t like to enter holy buildings (churches/holy temples/religious monasteries/etc.).
Fog incites the character to fight.
Rain incites the character to fight.
Falling snow incites the character to fight.
Strong wind incites the character to fight.
Lightning incites the character to fight.
Inclement weather incites the character to fight.
Can’t sleep in total darkness, needs some kind of lighting.
Excessively tips everyone (waitresses/bartenders/musicians/etc.).
Adds tattoos to his body for every new place he visits.
Will only ride horses.
Will only ride donkeys.
Will only ride elephants.
Will only ride wyverns.
Will only ride in a dog sled.
Will NOT ride horses.
Will NOT ride donkeys.
Will NOT ride elephants.
Will NOT ride wyverns.
Will NOT ride in a dog sled.
Constantly murmurs religious incantations.
Doesn’t ever carry money on his person.
Leaves emergency stashes of supplies in every major area he visits.
Doesn’t trust people who don’t remember his name.
Believes vegetables are poisonous.
Carves a scar or tattoos himself when he commits a major sin against his deity.
His laughter always sounds incredibly devious and evil (regardless of alignment).
Fond of headbutting anyone he gets in an argument with.
Meticulously collects daggers.
Meticulously collects scrolls.
Meticulously collects gems.
Meticulously collects old coins.
Meticulously collects small bottles.
Denies the existence of wind, and always explains it away as something else.
Denies the existence of earthquakes, and always explains it away as something else.
Denies the existence of floods, and always explains it away as something else.
Accent that seems to change on a consistent basis.
Believes he has animal empathy but in reality has no special powers with animals.
Prays for every corpse, friend or foe, that he comes across.
Must apologize to anything, person or animal, before he kills it.
Carries a mundane spoon in his pocket at the ready, “Just in case…”.
Carries a mundane shoelace in his pocket at the ready, “Just in case…”.
Carries a mundane broken key in his pocket at the ready, “Just in case…”.
Strongly believes some famous dead individual (Ember's version of Elvis), is still alive.
When time allows, always paints his face with “the colors of war” prior to combat.
Has a very odd nickname (Potato/Fingernail/Bub/etc.).
Looks incredibly awkward when fighting (always shoots bows in a contorted manner/swings a sword funny/throws “like a girl”, etc.).
Always breaks out in a dance when he wins, whether it is an argument, a fight, or a game of cards.
Constantly mixes up proverbs and sayings.
Cannot admit to being wrong even when shown proof of being wrong.
Constantly has a toothpick in his mouth, even when fighting.	
Often smells of his favorite food.
Often smells of cologne.
Often smells of something bad.
Always finishes his food first and asks other party members, “Are you going to finish that?”.
Has a non-combat pet with him (mouse).
Has a non-combat pet with him (ferret).
Has a non-combat pet with him (small dog).
Uncomfortable in crowds of people.
Constantly plays with a yoyo when going about his daily business.
Constantly plays with a coin when going about his daily business.
Constantly plays with a stick when going about his daily business.
Constantly plays with a deck of cards when going about his daily business.
Carries a special coin with him everywhere that he uses to help him make decisions (heads or tails?).
Incredibly afraid of mirrors and will do anything to avoid them.
Always refers to himself in the third person.
Refuses to allow anyone to touch his smoking pipe, refuses to explain why, but will fight to the death over it.
Always speaks in a seductive voice (he is unaware of this).
Always speaks in a seductive voice (he is well aware of this).
Insists on being fashionable, even at times that it is extremely difficult to do so (fighting/sleeping/climbing a tree/crawling through mud/etc	).
Has nightmares about leprechauns.
Has nightmares about fireflies.
Has nightmares about koala bears.
Uses the services of prostitutes but insists afterward that they pay him.
Believes that he is the reincarnation of some famous person that died long ago.
Will take unnecessary risks or do dangerous acts if his courage is questioned, such as being called a chicken or coward.
No sense of humor – Responds to all jokes as if they’re serious statements.
Always blames an accident on someone else in the party.
Always refers to himself as “The Amazing NAME!”.
Cannot physically part with his primary weapon.
Cannot physically part with his armor.
Cannot physically part with his primary weapon OR his armor.
Eats only with his hands, will not use utensils.
Constantly talks about his homeland and often relates everything being talked about back to something in his homeland.
Has an imaginary friend with which he occasionally converses.
Has a voice that doesn’t fit his body or personality.
Is very easily swayed by food.
Never curses or uses any deity’s name in vain and disapproves of those who do so.
Chews tobacco and has a habit of spitting everywhere he goes.
Can speak, but prefers to talk through gestures or sign language.
Prays to whatever god he thinks fits the situation and will help him out.
Feels it is necessary to taunt all of his enemies, regardless of the situation or how dangerous the enemy is.
Only drinks one specific type of alcohol, believes all others are worthless.
Refers to his deity as “The Great One” and threatens violence to anyone who utters its name.
Was once horribly wronged by someone with blonde hair and is now suspicious of anyone with blonde hair.
Was once horribly wronged by someone with a facial scar and is now suspicious of anyone with a facial scar.
Was once horribly wronged by someone with green eyes and is now suspicious of anyone with green eyes.
Was once horribly wronged by someone with blonde hair and is now hates anyone with blonde hair.
Was once horribly wronged by someone with a facial scar and is now hates anyone with a facial scar.
Was once horribly wronged by someone with green eyes and is now hates anyone with green eyes.
Is really bad at lying.
Carves his name into something at every major location he visits.
Obsessed with the “beauty” of undead.
Obsessed with the "beauty" of dragons.
Obsessed with the "beauty" of werewolves.
Obsessed with the "beauty" of alveschi.
Gives everyone he meets a nickname and calls them by that name ... EVERYONE.
Has names for all of his pieces of equipment and speaks to them often.
Always wears a hat or a helmet, no matter what.
Makes his own sound effects while fighting.
Always finds an excuse to charge into a dangerous situation regardless of the consequences.
Uses circular reasoning for everything.
Isn't religious, but suddenly displays extreme piety in life-threatening situations, only to revert back once the danger has passed.
Obsessive about polishing, cleaning, and maintaining his gear.
Ends nearly every conversation with the phrase, “I should go now”.
Plays an instrument often and very poorly, but believes he is good at playing it.
Uses nautical terms freely and inaccurately throughout his conversations, even though he has never been to sea.
Uses nautical terms freely and inaccurately throughout his conversations, even though he has only been to sea a few times.
Allergic to undead, and begins to sneeze uncontrollably when he is within a short distance of them.
Allergic to gryphons, and begins to sneeze uncontrollably when he is within a short distance of one.
Allergic to baby powder, and begins to sneeze uncontrollably when he is within a short distance of it.
Allergic to alveschi, and begins to sneeze uncontrollably when he is within a short distance of one.
Allergic to beastfolk, and begins to sneeze uncontrollably when he is within a short distance of one.
Very sarcastic, especially when in life or death situations.
The character is mute - he is physically incapable of vocalizing.
